# Overview
_AGPSR_ is an open-source R framework for the semi-automated, harmonized processing of accelerometer and GPS logger data. _AGPSR_ is designed for high-throughput data processing, yielding data appropriate for ecological and other related study designs. _AGPSR_ follows a three-step, automatable sequence of steps: (Step 1) pre-processes and cleans accelerometer gt3x files, (Step 2) pre-processes and cleans GPS logger CSV files and (Step 3) harmonizes accelerometer and GPS logger files. Each of the three parts of _AGPSR_ is coded as a separate R function, with clearly defined input file types, and user-controllable parameters.

## gt3x_function
This function takes in a single gt3x file and generates two output files: a csv file with minute-level epochs of activity categories for each minute of a participant’s usable data, and a csv file with wake/sleep time, non-wear and wear time on each day and decisions on whether to include this day into the study.

## gps_function
The gps_function reads in a single csv file generated by a GPS logger device. The file is assumed to have a single row per time point (e.g., minute), with GPS coordinates (latitude and longitude) as well as time stamp information (date, time) and encompassing all the GPS coordinates for a single participant for the course of the study.

## harmonize_function
The harmonize_function reads in a single output data file from Step 1 and a single data file output from Step 2 and merges the files by day/time (e.g., per minute). The function keeps all rows (minutes) from both datafiles, yielding missing data for the accelerometer or the GPS data as observed. Straightforward editing or post-processing data elimination can identify output data rows for deletion. The output file is a single csv with one row per minute including both latitude/longitude and activity classification.
